

This a model from the article:  
**Modelling the response of FOXO transcription factors to multiple post-translational modifications made by ageing-related signalling pathways.**   
_Smith GR, Shanley DP._ PLoS One. 2010 Jun 14;5(6):e11092.
[20567500](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20567500) ,  
**Abstract:**   
FOXO transcription factors are an important, conserved family of regulators of
cellular processes including metabolism, cell-cycle progression, apoptosis and
stress resistance. They are required for the efficacy of several of the
genetic interventions that modulate lifespan. FOXO activity is regulated by
multiple post-translational modifications (PTMs) that affect its subcellular
localization, half-life, DNA binding and transcriptional activity. Here, we
show how a mathematical modelling approach can be used to simulate the
effects, singly and in combination, of these PTMs. Our model is implemented
using the Systems Biology Markup Language (SBML), generated by an ancillary
program and simulated in a stochastic framework. The use of the ancillary
program to generate the SBML is necessary because the possibility that many
regulatory PTMs may be added, each independently of the others, means that a
large number of chemically distinct forms of the FOXO molecule must be taken
into account, and the program is used to generate them. Although the model
does not yet include detailed representations of events upstream and
downstream of FOXO, we show how it can qualitatively, and in some cases
quantitatively, reproduce the known effects of certain treatments that induce
various single and multiple PTMs, and allows for a complex spatiotemporal
interplay of effects due to the activation of multiple PTM-inducing
treatments. Thus, it provides an important framework to integrate current
knowledge about the behaviour of FOXO. The approach should be generally
applicable to other proteins experiencing multiple regulations.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

